hey I'm Derek it's me Derek and we got a
new camera at Black Friday and I got a
new chair so things can look slightly
different or worse or better by the way
this is stop skeleton fighting hey I
already put you on the spotlight for DS
slot life with some of the craziest uses
for the GBA slot on the DS which was
only available on the original DS and
the DS Lite models but robot the stuff
that the average des enthusiasts would
encounter in the wild I mean you
probably don't have a piano attachment
gathering dust in your closet but there
are DS games that work with the GBA cart
that unlock new content once the you
might have right now and before we move
on this video is brought to you in part
by Nord VPN watch to the end of the
video to learn more about offer code
stop skeletons now let's get go of
course the most famous use of the dual
slot action was for Pokemon the fourth
generation Pokemon DS games could
interface with the third generation
pokemon GBA games but link cables didn't
work between these two systems so using
the dual slots on an original DS or dsi
was the only way to migrate your old GBA
pokemon into generation for all you had
to do was pretty much finish the game
finish the main story and gain access to
the Pokedex and then meet Professor Oak
and then go to pal Park that's it to be
honest here the last time that I
finished a Pokemon game to completion
there was a tight three-minute rap that
named all of them it's pain free hey I'm
a little out of my element here so I
brought the brightest scale of bro
Pokemon slot scholar of our generation
mister Loxton huh what hello yes hi
that's me I think yeah Loxton it's you
Loxton wait that's my joke I choose you
Loxton that's a bad joke anyway thanks
coming on man thanks for having me on
no dude thank you for giving me the time
please walk me through this
why is Pokemon migration from gen 3 to
Gen 4 is so confusing so under normal
circumstances pokemon live forever they
are the most comfortable which is why
you can find specific Pokemon only in
specific places for the most part that
is we do know that most species of
pokémon will have their explorers
migrating far and wide
like perhaps traversing agencies or just
cheer curiosity right and then you put
the two games in the slots yeah and in
the cenote region the locals have built
a park specifically to attract these
foreign pokemons likely to spruce up
their region's biodiversity I don't know
if you've noticed but suno is severely
lacking fire types yes I did yeah I knew
that I knew that I knew that totally he
was testing me
all right you I passed the test wasn't
smart but anyway they called it pail
Park and it especially attracts Pokemon
from Kanto and Hoenn who were just
released by their trainers and they
migrated to all the way here and while
they are in this park you can catch him
and glitter on in Kanto they did the
same thing
biodiversity win did Pokemon becomes so
complicated I mean it's just like
rock-paper-scissors right cute maybe
maybe if there were you know 18
different symbols with two variants each
but anyway the Pokemon company even
migrated rare Pokemon into your
collection via special containment
devices distributed at special events
like this deoxys wages they just
distributed Pokemon this way they didn't
do anything else cool like the berry
patch on the e-reader miss opportunity
man it's a lot simpler than eating an
e-reader and swiping some cards a couple
of times or needing to plug your
handheld device into the cable that's
just dangling there at a store it's it's
easier this way but to be fair the
e-reader is a way dumber methods that's
a point in my book but fine yes okay so
technology and convenience finally
converge on the DS so I can finally
migrate all my Pokemon over right
unfortunately no certain Pokemon
ecosystems are permanently shut off from
the rest due to pokey walls is the
opposite of pokeballs they keep them out
instead of in wood weight poke a walls
this is the dumb stuff and a totally
real stuff that I love real walls are
not very effective against migration but
the original djinns 1 and 2 as well as
the new chain 8 all have super effective
pokeballs in place I hope that clears
some things up oh wait so you've been
able to move your Pokemon up from every
Pokemon game since 2002 until now well
yeah well if they're allowed into gell
are anyway otherwise you have to wait
until pokemon home comes out
so we're just waiting for Game Freak to
finally figure out how to use the
Internet
it's 2019 it's fine that's fine and
thankfully the other Pokemon GBA slot
games aren't quite as complicated so I
can take it from here thank you dude no
problem and next time next time could we
could we have our skeletons battle may
be pretty funny all things considered
hey we're stop skeletons from fighting
not prevent consensual fisticuffs but
thank you so much for explaining all
that Loxton pokemon and would you
believe it even the Pokemon spin-offs
from this time also have connectivity
with the DS GBA slot
Pokemon - for example also works with
the gen 3 GBA games but I like Pokemon
mystery dungeon rescue team the best
because it's one of the few games that
had a tandem red and blue release on the
GBA and yes at the same time there's a
few things you can do with both games
inserted into the DS but the main one is
that if your Pokemon Team fates in one
game you can use the other game to
rescue that team without losing money or
items well honestly there's enough hot
slot action in the Pokemon verse that
it's worth getting the DS or dsi ight
just so you can transfer your team and
utilize all the extra features that's
enough Pokemon how about we change gears
from Pokemon innovation to hideo kojima
innovation with lunar nights and the
boktai games boktai is a series of GBA
games that have solar sensors built into
the cartridge basically so you can use
actual sunlight to fight off the game's
vampires well you're supposed to use
sunlight if you instead live in a place
as luminous as Seattle in the winter you
can cheat and just use a blacklight stay
indoors by the time this series is
fourth entry lunar Nights got released
onto the DS they had to take out the
game's expensive sensor but they got
around this by letting you put the
previous three games in the GBA slot yes
this means that not only does lunar
Nights use the GBA slot it uses the
solar sensor on the GBA cards to restore
different stats for your inactive
characters depending on the game it's
not necessary for completing lunar
Nights but it's still really impressive
but they still found a way to work in
that tech and I want to give the game
credit for actually mentioning all this
in the instruction book which is a
pretty rare for peripherals like this I
don't know why they don't talk about it
put it on the box how cool is that but
that's not all you can do with boktai it
also works with freaking Megaman battle
work five double team which is possibly
the most feature packed battle network
game ever Battle Network 5 double team
was the first battle network game to
come out on the DS so it works with
every battle network game that came
before it which is seriously made
there's so many Capcom was pumping out
these games like was rabbits breeding
back then it was just nuts but it's
really want to highlight that this is a
capcom game that works with a Konami
game which like you can't cross the
streams like that I mean what's gonna
happen Mega Man's in Solid Snake's
living together mass hysteria also
apparently the soul cross that you get
from boktai 2 completely breaks the game
good stuff but this is just a small
sampling of the games that work in
tandem with other DS games plugging in
castlevania aria of sorrow into dawn of
sorrow makes a Mina doll appear in the
shop which doesn't really affect
anything in the game except for soothing
my inner Dracula rage we all have it
it's part of growing up it's nothing
major but I owned these games for years
I had absolutely no idea about any of
this stuff and the similar bonus content
for Megaman X Z Advance Wars The Sims
and Frogger did you know there were so
many Frogger games and they all work
together to unlock bonus stuff somebody
out there had a way better childhood
than me what's up with these guys huh
maybe you've seen these around at retro
shops and as you can probably guess they
are not actually GBA games but DS
accessory packs we got the memory
expansion pack the rumble pack and the
motion pack I want to start with this
one because it spelled PA CK which is
how you actually spelled the word pack
Nintendo the motion pack houses an
accelerometer to detect motion and is
use in exactly 1 game Tony Hawk's motion
aka the worst rated Tony Hawk game until
Pro Skater 5 came out seven years later
I love how everything about this game is
absolutely unnecessary it was released
in November 2008 which was the same
month as the DSi which if you'll
remember did not have a GBA slot so the
timing wasn't right
it's a Tony Hawk game where you steer by
turning the system and of course it has
all the nuance of trying to steer a cow
onto a halfpipe all my life to use this
game with the title paddle instead on
top of that even though we got all the
accesses of motion it uses every button
on the D
for tricks plus you gotta tap the
touchscreen to do specials
I admire the Moxie but why would you
make a motion game that uses so many
buttons this game was made by create
studios or crea there's no II I don't
know who had a tough act to follow since
handheld Tony Hawk games actually had a
pretty good track record before this
thanks to punching weight heroes
Vicarious Visions I actually really like
this game from a Garbo curiosity
standpoint now but I think back then no
one was really ready to accept the fact
that the Tony Hawk franchise the great
Tony Hawk franchise was in freefall the
shocker here was the bonus game packed
in Hue pixel painter this is a totally
separate game it has nothing to do with
Tony and it's a shame it had to share
the spotlight it's a charming little
game when you cover your little guy in
paint and connect dots around areas of a
map to bring color and light to the
world it's like a hybrid actraiser and
kicks it's cute simple way more fun than
Hawks motion I mean this should have
been the main game with Tony Hawk as the
bonus seriously tracked on this game but
for Hugh pixel painter but of course
Activision wasn't the only ones to shove
the extra tech into a gba cart Nintendo
ultimate peripheral cartridges that are
compatible with the whole slew of games
like the Nintendo DS rumblepack this is
like a throwback to the n64 era and it
works with a surprising number of games
50 but I actually only have four
compatible games and none of which are
Metroid Prime pinball which is what the
eternal pack was bundled with in the
u.s. it works about as well as you'd
expect and I didn't find it to be too
loud or that intense but I noticed that
all the compatible games I own use it
differently and some don't use it that
well it's weird that people were still
struggling with Rumble and the mid arts
but it's really good in games like
parters and time where it helps with
timing my crit hits and I loved how it
pulsed to the awesome soundtrack of
space invaders extreme though it did
make me have to choose between playing
with Rumble or the paddle and Tibet it
couldn't have both alright so if you've
made it this far in the video I got a
real treat for you and it is the
Nintendo DS memory expansion pack aka
maybe the single most useless thing we
have ever covered I'm punching weight
you maybe didn't even know about this
because while it adds an extra eight
megabytes of RAM to the Nintendo DS the
soul game that used it was the
crappy opera based web browser
two of these bad boys were actually
released this GBA size one and then I
half size one for the DES light in the
US this one was only available online
through the mail so this car is actually
kind of rare but I paid 550 for it so
definitely ain't valuable not you'd
think that this would have worked like
the n64 expansion pack and in theory it
would except that the n64 and the dsr
pretty different systems and the extra
ram just wasn't necessary I guess not
surprisingly the homebrew community
found the most useful though as far as I
can tell the only true game that can use
the official Nintendo memory expansion
pack is the homebrew of quake 1 and even
there it's optional some third-party
expansion packs are produced that are
used for homebrew applications but in
terms of the official cart that's about
it and for the record we could have
bought BDS browser for this video but
then I would have had it actually use
for this thing and no not listen I have
in my GBA collection a truly completely
useless object and I wouldn't have any
other way the DES and its slot so many
mysteries so much wonderful stuff there
anyway thank you so much for watching
thank you to our patreon supporters and
you know what thank you to North VPN tis
the season for bug hug matt nord VPN
they've listened in on top of their no
data logging policy and double data
encryption nor VPN is gonna make your
data safer with bug bounties on the
rootinest tootinest roughest bugs out
there that's just if those bugs are able
to get past their crack shot team of
security experts go to north VPN calm
slash style of skeletons and use the
Africa which styled skeletons for a
special holiday deal on a three-year
plan plus 81 percent off plus four extra
months free plus nor PP ends password
manager best 81 percent off nor VPN at
nor VPN comm / stop skeletons and the
Africa
stop skeletons I'm looking for name
books I've seen yet see a dog I see a
little dogie launch pad ago make sure
ain't no bugs happening
[Music]
you